# About this Repository

This repository contains scripts for *generating **code documentation*** for *IGLib ([legacy](https://github.com/ajgorhoe/IGLib.workspace.base.iglib/blob/master/README.md) & [new](https://github.com/ajgorhoe/IGLib.modules.IGLibCore/blob/main/README.md))* and other code projects. It uses **[Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/index.html)** with **[Graphviz](https://graphviz.gitlab.io/)** to generate a rich and easily readable HTML documentation of computer code ([example can be seen here](https://ajgorhoe.github.io/IGLibFrameworkCodedoc/generated/16_04_igliball_1.7.2/html/d4/d6b/classIG_1_1Num_1_1BoundingBox.html)).

Doxygen and other binaries are automatically downloaded (by cloning a dedicated repository) when documentation is generated via scripts. Currently, documentation can only be generated on Windows because the binaries are provided only for this OS. This can be easily fixed by providing binaries for other systems and putting them on the same relative location. Currently, the cross-platform scripts don't use system's installation of Doxygen and GraphViz (the older batch scripts have this possibility), but this can be fixed, too.

**Contents**:

* [Use with Legacy IGLib](#use-with-legacy-iglib)
* [Use with new IGLib](#use-with-new-iglib)
* [Customize for Other Projects](#customize-for-other-projects)
* [Misc Remarks](#miscellaneous-remarks)

## Use with Legacy IGLib

In order to use this repository, clone it by using the IGLib container repository located at:

> *https://github.com/ajgorhoe/iglibcontainer.git*

After cloning the repository, navigate to the **workspace/base/** subdirectory and run the PowerShell script

`UpdateRepoGroup_Extended.ps1`

without parameters. This will clone all the repositories needed to create code documentation. Next, navigate to the **workspace/base/** subdirectory and run the PowerShell script

`UpdateRepo_codedoc.ps1`

(also without parameters). This will clone the `codedoc` direectory that contains the generation scripts and other necessary ingredients. Navigate to the **workspace/codedoc/** subdirectory and run one of the generations scripts, for example

`generate_iglib.ps1`

After running this script, a basic IGLib code documentation should be generated in *workspace/codedoc/**, in the following subdirectory:

`generated/iglib/html/`

Open the `index.html` in order to browse the documentation. Its complete path relative to the `codedoc` clone directory should be:

> .../workspace/codedoc/generated/iglib/html/index.html

You can also open the

> ...//workspace/codedoc/code_documentation.html

file, which contains links to various flavors of the generated documentation. Links will work only after the documentation is generated. Normally, documentation should also be launched in a browser after generation.

There are **different flavors of documentation** for the same code project, which you can generate by running different scripts:

* `generate_iglib.ps1` creates the most basic IGLib documentation.
* `generate_iglib_all.ps1` creates basic documentation, but include extended set of code not included in the previous configuration, such as tests and some external libraries.
* `generate_iglib_with_sources.ps1` includes source code in the generated documentation. functions, classes, properties, etc., are linked to their definition of syntax-highlighted source code represented in HTML. Conversely, entities in code are back-linked to their documentation, which is a truly powerful feature that makes navigation easy.
* `generate_igliball_with_sources.ps1` creates documentation for extended set of sources, with source code included.

For additional information, you can also check the readme file of the above container repository for information about how to properly clone and use IGLib repositories.

For more information, see the documentation from IGLib base repository located at:

> *https://github.com/ajgorhoe/IGLib.workspace.base.iglib.git*

## Use with new IGLib

## Customize for Other Projects

## Miscellaneous Remarks

### Important - Running doxygen directly

When running Doxygen directly (not through scripts and passing only the configuration file), directories where generated documentation is put must already exist (Doxygen will not create it and will exit with unrelated error message if the directory does not exist).

Logs will give you better information that console output if Doxygen 
fails.

**Important**:
The following things must match for each kind of documentaion:

* Environment variable ConfigurationID set in the generation script
* Name of Doxygen configuration file
* Name of output directory in the above file, under OUTPUT_DIRECTORY

Location: `.../workspace/doc/codedoc/`

This directory contains source code documentation that is generated by Doxygen.

In order to update (re-create) documentation, run one of the configuration
files with Doxygen, e.g.

~~~shell
doxygen iglib.dox
~~~

You can edit configuration files by any text editor, or by a GUI-driven configuration tool (doxygen graphical front end) named doxywizard, e.g.

~~~shell
doxyvizard iglib.dox
~~~

Use if doxywizard is not very recommended, however, especially not to correct  path information.

## License and Terms of Use

Copyright (c) Igor Grešovnik
This repository is part of the [*Investigative Generic Library (**IGLib**)*](). See [license](./LICENSE.md) for terms of use.
